# Simulation Modeling Tool Kit (SMTK)

SMTK is a library which provides a way to specify attributes
(such as initial and boundary conditions, but also things
like mesh sizing functions) that describe a physical simulation
on a geometric domain, as well as high-level access to model
geometry (through various solid model and mesh tools) for the
purpose of linking attributes to geometric models.

## Building SMTK

In order to build SMTK you must have

+ A modern C++ compiler (gcc, clang, or VS),
+ [CMake](http://cmake.org) 2.8.11 or newer, and
+ [Boost](http://boost.org) 1.50.0 or newer.

We recommend using [Ninja](http://martine.github.io/ninja/) for fast builds.

You may optionally provide

+ [Qt](http://qt-project.org) version 4.8 or newer,
+ [CGMA](http://trac.mcs.anl.gov/projects/ITAPS/wiki/CGM) v13 or newer, and
+ [VTK](http://vtk.org) version 6.0 or newer

for additional functionality.

You may wish to obtain the test-data repository for SMTK in order
to run tests which require input datasets; run:

    git clone git@www.kitware.com:SMTKTestData.git

somewhere *outside* the SMTK source directory. When running CMake on SMTK,
set the `SMTK_DATA_DIR` variable to point to the directory `git clone`
created.

Once you have prepared all of the dependencies, it is time to
create a build directory (again, *outside* the SMTK source directory
containing this ReadMe file) and run CMake.
These instructions will assume you have the SMTK source in a
directory named `/source/SMTK`, the SMTK test-data in `/data/SMTK`,
that you wish to build in a directory named `/build/SMTK`, and will
install SMTK into `/install/SMTK`.
To begin:

    mkdir /build/SMTK
    cd /build/SMTK
    # If you do not have Ninja and do not have the SMTK test data:
    cmake /source/SMTK
    # or, if you have Ninja and the SMTK test data:
    cmake -G Ninja -DSMTK_DATA_DIR:PATH=/data/SMTK /source/SMTK

At this point, CMake will likely complain that you are missing Boost.
It will also default to not build python wrappings, Qt, VTK, or CGMA
functionality since those require optional dependencies.
To change these defaults and specify where Boost is located, you may
do any of the following:

+ manually edit the newly-created `/build/SMTK/CMakeCache.txt` file,
+ run the Qt `cmake-gui` command (assuming it is present in your build of CMake), or
+ run the text-based `ccmake` command (assuming it is present in your build of CMake).

Once you have updated all of the required settings, reconfigure (by re-running
`cmake`, pressing the "Configure" button, or pressing the `c` key, respectively --
depending on which method above you use to edit CMake settings). Once CMake is
in a good state, it will generate project files (either Makefiles, Ninja build
files, or an IDE project) either automatically (if you manually re-run `cmake`)
or at your request (when running `cmake-gui` or `ccmake`).
You may then build and install SMTK using the generated project files.
